# Computational Finance And Financial Econometrics Project

## Introduction
This report consists of an analysis of the returns for four assets; Netflix,
Inc. (NFLX), Nvidia Corporation (NVDA), Acuity Brands, Inc. (AYI), and
NVR, Inc. (NVR). These companies each enjoyed positive returns between
April 2013 and April 2018, with AYI seeing the most moderate returns
while NVDA saw by far the greatest returns. Finally, we will compare the
returns of a portfolio consisting of these three assets, which are all
elements of the Standard and Poor's (S&P) 1500 Composite, to the
returns of an similar investment in the S&P 500 Composite during the
same period.

Netflix, Inc. is an internet based entertainment company headquartered
in Los Gatos, CA and traded on NASDAQ. While they began by offering
video rentals through the mail, they have largely shifted away from this
model and have began to focus on streaming video content. This content
is sourced from network and cable television programs as well as their
own generated content. They monetize this content by offering a monthly
subscription based service to users in exchange for unlimited streaming
of their content. Netflix has seen steadly increasing revenue in recent
years due to increasing tendency towards "cord-cutting", or a reduced
use traditional viewing methods and shifting towards more on-demand
viewing. With a 2017 revenue of $11.7 billion Netflix ranks as the 10th
largest internet company by revenue. During the time period being
analyzed they saw dramatic growth from an inital value of $30.85, to a
final value of $291.94.

Nvidia Corporation is also a technologically focused company that is
also traded on NASDAQ. Nvidia Corporation however produces computer
hardware such as Advanced Micro Devices' (AMD's), Graphical Processing
Unit's (GPU's) and System on a Chip units (SoCs). Headquartered in Santa
Clara, CA; Nvidia has seen rapid growth since late-2015 growing from a
stock price of just $22.00 per share in August 2015 to \$224.80 per
share in April 2018. This surge in price is likely due to increased
demand for GPU's as a result of the rapid growth of Bitcoin which grew
in value from $283.73 to $6,943.77 during this period peaking as high
as $13.850.49 during the same time frame. The reason these two are
likely tied is due to the use of GPU's in ``mining'' Bitcoin, a process
in which people can earn this cryptocurrency by processing transactions
completed utilizing the same currency. However the volatility of Bitcoin
may be cause for concern for long-term investment in Nvidia as if there
is a dramaitic drop in the price of Bitcoin we will also likely see a
similar dip in Nvidia stock.

Acuity Brands, Inc. is an Atlanta, GA based company traded on the NYSE,
and is in the Commercial and Industrial Lighting Industry. They operate
throughout North America, Europe and Asia andare the largest lighting
manufacturer in North America in terms of market share. During the
analyzed period Acuity Brands saw steady growth until late 2016 peaking
at nearly \$275.00 per share before steadily losing value through April
2018 to just \$119.70. The loss in value seems indicative of a potential
long term issue as they follow repeated failures to meet projected
quarterly earnings due to decreased margins. However if they are able to
correct this issue they are likely due for a long-term rebound.

NVR, Inc. is a homebuilding and mortgage company based out of Reston
Virginia, and is traded on the NYSE. Their heavy focus in the housing
industry means they will see consistently positive returns, while the
housing market continues to climb which would make them a safe
investment. They would be highly succeptible to another market dip as
they would see a reduction in revenue on the production front as well as
the financial services front which could be compounded further if they
were to see any increase in defaults on mortgages.

The Standard and Poor's 500 is a market index based on 500 large
companies which has common stock issued on either the NYSE or NASDAQ.
The S\&P 500 weighs each company in it's index by using the number of
shares each company has availible for public trading. During the period
the index saw overall positive returns as the value increased from
\$1598 to \$2648 during the period of analysis.
